index.md, before:

# Professor Ryan C. Cooper
## About the Instructor
### __Office hours__ by appointment: [Calendly](https://calendly.com/ryan-c-cooper)

## [Prof. Cooper YouTube channel](https://www.youtube.com/@profryancooper)

[![Cooper Channel
banner](https://yt3.googleusercontent.com/HBEZnZZR0EDP3Hxlv30Ilv1nSlmpLuEEF9XzJmDRWOstsWpBnrLj1JCeu5PNu4RikzHsxeNs=w2120-fcrop64=1,00005a57ffffa5a8-k-c0xffffffff-no-nd-rj)](https://www.youtube.com/@profryancooper)

<!-- <iframe width="560" height="315" -->
<!-- src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/pvdID82aMEg" frameborder="0" -->
<!-- allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; -->
<!-- gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe> -->
<!--  -->

Ryan C. Cooper, Ph.D.\
Assistant Professor-in-Residence\
Mechanical Engineering Department\
University of Connecticut\
191 Auditorium rd\
Engineering Building II room 315\
Storrs, CT 06269

### Contact Prof. Cooper

- __Office hours__ by appointment: [Calendly](https://calendly.com/ryan-c-cooper/30min)
- Connect on [GitHub](https://github.com/cooperrc)
- __email:__ ryan_dot_c_dot_cooper_at_uconn.edu


## Open educational resources:

### [CE2120 - Applied Dynamics](https://cooperrc.github.io/engineering-dynamics)

Applied Mechanics II (or Dynamics) is the study of how things move and
interact. We are limiting our study to Newtonian mechanics. We won’t
consider quantum effects like wave-particle duality or relativistic
effects. Our current interest is to describe free and constrained motion
much less than the speed of light and with mass much larger than an
atom, but much smaller than the sun (~1e-27 < m < 2e30 kg).

### [ME3255 - Computational Mechanics](https://cooperrc.github.io/computational-mechanics)

This is a project-based introduction to computational mechanics. There
are five modules with exercises, homeworks, and final projects. The
overall goal of the course is learn to frame engineering problems as
computational methods. Once we can communicate our engineering problems
to Python code (or any other computer language) we can use standardized
computational methods to solve those problems.

### [ME3256 - Data Driven Decisions](https://cooperrc.github.io/data-driven-decisions)

This course explores the integration of Monte Carlo analysis—a powerful
probabilistic modeling technique—with technical communication. Students
will learn how to effectively communicate results from Monte Carlo
methods for both technical and non-technical audiences. Topics covered
include probability modeling, Monte Carlo simulation, statistical
analysis, and the creation of technical reports and presentations.

### [ME3263 - Introduction to Sensors and Data](https://cooperrc.github.io/sensors_and_data/README.html)

This course introduces students to physical measurements, statistical
analysis, and scientific writing. Engineering concepts are explored with
hands-on laboratory and computational experiments.

### [ME3264 - Applied Measurements](https://cooperrc.github.io/applied_measurements)
ME 3264 is the second in a two-part series at UConn on one of the most
central subjects in engineering, measurements, and experimentation. This
laboratory course is an integral part of the mechanical engineering
curriculum and places a major emphasis on gaining experience in
observation and experimentation in order to illustrate and reinforce
concepts covered in previous courses. Laboratory experiences include
measurements in energy conversion, solid mechanics, dynamics, and fluid
and thermal sciences, as well as statistical methods to analyze the
experimental data.


### [ME5180 - Advanced Dynamics](https://cooperrc.github.io/advanced-dynamics)

Dynamics is the study of how things move and interact. It sets the
foundation for almost every Mechanical engineering discipline: solid
mechanics, fluid mechanics, controls, vibrations, etc. We are limiting
our study to classical mechanics.

We have four conditions for classical mechanics:

1. mass of objects is constant
2. mass of objects >> mass of atomic particles
3. velocity << speed of light
4. time is short (less than millenia) and mass is small (less than the sun
or black holes)

This course derives equations of motion for multibody systems using
kinematics and kinetics. Kinematics is the study of the geometry of
motion. Kinetics is the study of forces, impacts, and energy on objects.
Your goal is to build general equations of motion using Lagrange
equations. We will build the foundation for more advanced rigid body
dynamic software in Python.

Commit message:

adding director title and banner

index.md, after:

# Professor Ryan C. Cooper
## About the Instructor
### __Office hours__ by appointment: [Calendly](https://calendly.com/ryan-c-cooper)

## [Prof. Cooper YouTube channel](https://www.youtube.com/@profryancooper)

[![Cooper Channel banner](spiderm-at-desk.png)](https://www.youtube.com/@profryancooper)

<!-- <iframe width="560" height="315" -->
<!-- src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/pvdID82aMEg" frameborder="0" -->
<!-- allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; -->
<!-- gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe> -->
<!--  -->

Ryan C. Cooper, Ph.D.\
Director of Faculty Development\
Associate Professor-in-Residence\
Mechanical Engineering Department\
University of Connecticut\
191 Auditorium rd\
Engineering Building II room 315\
Storrs, CT 06269

### Contact Prof. Cooper

- __Office hours__ by appointment: [Calendly](https://calendly.com/ryan-c-cooper/30min)
- Connect on [GitHub](https://github.com/cooperrc)
- __email:__ ryan_dot_c_dot_cooper_at_uconn.edu


## Open educational resources:

### [CE2120 - Applied Dynamics](https://cooperrc.github.io/engineering-dynamics)

Applied Mechanics II (or Dynamics) is the study of how things move and
interact. We are limiting our study to Newtonian mechanics. We won’t
consider quantum effects like wave-particle duality or relativistic
effects. Our current interest is to describe free and constrained motion
much less than the speed of light and with mass much larger than an
atom, but much smaller than the sun (~1e-27 < m < 2e30 kg).

### [ME3255 - Computational Mechanics](https://cooperrc.github.io/computational-mechanics)

This is a project-based introduction to computational mechanics. There
are five modules with exercises, homeworks, and final projects. The
overall goal of the course is learn to frame engineering problems as
computational methods. Once we can communicate our engineering problems
to Python code (or any other computer language) we can use standardized
computational methods to solve those problems.

### [ME3256 - Data Driven Decisions](https://cooperrc.github.io/data-driven-decisions)

This course explores the integration of Monte Carlo analysis—a powerful
probabilistic modeling technique—with technical communication. Students
will learn how to effectively communicate results from Monte Carlo
methods for both technical and non-technical audiences. Topics covered
include probability modeling, Monte Carlo simulation, statistical
analysis, and the creation of technical reports and presentations.

### [ME3263 - Introduction to Sensors and Data](https://cooperrc.github.io/sensors_and_data/README.html)

This course introduces students to physical measurements, statistical
analysis, and scientific writing. Engineering concepts are explored with
hands-on laboratory and computational experiments.

### [ME3264 - Applied Measurements](https://cooperrc.github.io/applied_measurements)
ME 3264 is the second in a two-part series at UConn on one of the most
central subjects in engineering, measurements, and experimentation. This
laboratory course is an integral part of the mechanical engineering
curriculum and places a major emphasis on gaining experience in
observation and experimentation in order to illustrate and reinforce
concepts covered in previous courses. Laboratory experiences include
measurements in energy conversion, solid mechanics, dynamics, and fluid
and thermal sciences, as well as statistical methods to analyze the
experimental data.


### [ME5180 - Advanced Dynamics](https://cooperrc.github.io/advanced-dynamics)

Dynamics is the study of how things move and interact. It sets the
foundation for almost every Mechanical engineering discipline: solid
mechanics, fluid mechanics, controls, vibrations, etc. We are limiting
our study to classical mechanics.

We have four conditions for classical mechanics:

1. mass of objects is constant
2. mass of objects >> mass of atomic particles
3. velocity << speed of light
4. time is short (less than millenia) and mass is small (less than the sun
or black holes)

This course derives equations of motion for multibody systems using
kinematics and kinetics. Kinematics is the study of the geometry of
motion. Kinetics is the study of forces, impacts, and energy on objects.
Your goal is to build general equations of motion using Lagrange
equations. We will build the foundation for more advanced rigid body
dynamic software in Python.
