# Teaching Philosophy

I frame learning as a journey with the student as the central figure.
The student's journey includes recognizing their own strengths and
appreciating the background and experiences that they bring to the
classroom. In the student-centered classroom, diversity fosters
creativity, collaboration, and understanding. I use my role as mentor
and educator to amplify voices of the minority in the classroom.
Specifically, I create a platform for students to build projects that
draw from their own backgrounds and create passion. 

The crucial element to learning new information is the journey that the
student takes. The learning journey starts by recognizing what knowledge
and background they already possess. Then, a new model is introduced
that might challenge previous biases or views. From here, the student
can either reframe their previous knowledge to incorporate this new
model _or_ start to challenge themselves to build something new and
share it with others. 

"_Education is a social process. Education is growth. Education is, not a
preparation of life; education is **life**." - John Dewey_

The _social process_ is a journey that forces the student to confront their
own strengths and understanding of the world. They have to communicate
new knowledge and _grow_ in order to truly learn. 

## Teaching philosophy in practice

![Dewey quote on education as life surrounded by the learning
journey](./learning-journey.svg)

I modeled the learning journey after [Campbell's Hero's
Journey](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Hero_with_a_Thousand_Faces).

I start by having students identify themselves and their previous
knowledge. This is where we agree to how the class will run and we edit
the syllabus together. Then, I introduce the new model. The model could
come in the form of equations, an observation, or computational work.
I build my assignments using **problem**- and **project**-based learning
approach. 

**Problem**-based learning is defined here as giving students all the
necessary tools and resources to answer a specific question. For
example, a good **problem**-based assignment would introduce the Student
t-test with an example and formulas explained, then ask students to
determine if two sets of data have statistically significant differences
in the mean. The goal in these assignments is to encourage communication
and collaboration between students+TAs+professor.

After completing a series of **problem**-based assignments, students are
given a more open-ended **project**-based assignment. 

**Project**-based learning is defined here as giving students a more
open-ended assignment that draws from multiple classroom experiences.
My courses have varying levels of open-ended project examples, the least
open-ended would include a very specific goal, e.g. [make a model of
firework](https://cooperrc.github.io/computational-mechanics/projects/03_IVP-project.html),
but its up to the individual to choose _how_ and _what_ to report. The
most open-ended projects as students to [apply Newton's laws to your
career](https://cooperrc.github.io/engineering-dynamics/module_05/overview.html)
where the goal is to let students build an application that is
important to _them_. 


The completion of the open-ended project is a big achievement in the
course, but the hard work is to _communicate_ and _share_ this work with
other people. In the figure above, I give the example of
[GitHub](https://github.com), but this could also take the form of
sharing Jupyter notebooks, building a powerpoint, or recording a video,
etc. The fundamental **key** is to get students to transform this
achievement into something more than a number or figure, ideally
something they will use in a portfolio or personal website. 

Once the student has completed this cycle, they enter the next stage
with new knowledge and new skills. I design my courses to cover
engineering applications and models, but students leave the course with
communication, programming, problem-solving, and other technical skills
that helped them complete and communicate their results. 

## Conclusion

My teaching philosophy is a combination of Dewey's and Campbell's
works. I build a student-centered experiential learning environment. The
_experience_ must be student-centered because the learning journey is an
individual experience that is strengthened by classroom bonds and
communication. As the instructor, I provide the goals, resources, and
mentoring for the students. 
