# Python and Structural Analysis at Collins 
### Dr. Feng Feng
- Who is Dr. Feng Feng?

Feng Feng received his Ph.D. at UCLA in Solid and Structural Mechanics.
He has been involved in a number of computational mechanics applications
including transient dynamics and high speed impacts, fracture and
fatigue analyses, structural optimization, fluid-sold interactions, and
machine learning methods. Currently, he is a technical fellow lead at Collins
in the Structures group in Windsor Locks, CT. He enjoys metnoring new
engineers and exploring new codes and software. 

- What does Feng do at Collins?

Every airplane you enter has Collins engineered parts on board, there
are over 67 thousand employees, over 16 thousand engineers, and more
than 300 sites. At Collins Structures group, Dr. Feng uses a variety of
software packages that all have their own scripting languages and
interfaces including Abaqus, Ansys, Siemens NX, Hexagon Apex, and Altair
Hyperworks. Fatigue is a major engineering question in the industry. The
typical fatigue results start with an engineered design for a new
component. Then, its sent through a thermal analysis, which can take a
week of computational time. Then, the structural analysis uses the
results from the thermal analysis to predict stresses and strains in the
component, which can take another 20 days. Finally, the structural
stress and strain data is used to calculate fatigue predictions for the
part. Dr. Feng has significantly reduced the time from design-to-fatigue
predictions by passing data from commerical software to the next with a
combination of Python and C++ scripts and interfaces. In one
brazing-and-joining low-cycle fatigue analysis, he reduced the time
spent on the analysis from four years to three weeks!

- How does he use engineering education at Collins?

Dr. Feng carefully plans and details his team's structural analysis
problems. He has continued to innovate new ways to increase the speed at
which the team can set up and process results that can be over 250 GB.
He focuses his efforts on the core processes needed to process the data.
"Once you know the process, you can improve it." His work has saved
Collins thousands of engineering hours and created standard and
repeatable processing. 

- Advice to future engineers

Dr. Feng highly encourages new engineers to study computational
mechanics and programming skills. With these skills, new engineers can
work at finite element analysis companies such as Ansys or Abaqus, join
National Laboratory groups or Academic instutions, or work on Industrial
problems that turn into products and processes that we use every day. He
tells students to learn the _process_ that is currently uses and then
ask, "how can I help make this better/faster/etc.?"
